# Collection Framework

If we need to store data in a program it can be done in two ways: 
1. in a program itself.
2. external database

To store data in program itself, data structure comes into play.  

#### Collection Framework in Java helps facilitates data Structure to store data within program itself  
 
- If program is talking with a database for every transaction then it will take time and transaction becomes expensive. So, we use Collection to persist data within a program itself.
 
- Next, For data persistance via secondary storage device we will need external Db ERP, SAP, Postgres or any other database. 

**Why it's needed?** 

- To facilitate data Structure functionality in Java
- introduced in java 1.2 
- Before 1.2, Data structure was still there, but it was not part of Framework. 
- Classes which were introduced to do Data Structure functionality before are now called Legacy Classes or Legacy Collections. e.g., Vector, HashTable etc.
  


### To keep data in organized way is basic foundation of data Structure.
  
- it helps to keep large data in organized form, low memory consumption, easy search and retrieval etc. are features associated with any data Structure.

More on data Structure here: [data_structure][1]

[1]:data_structure/1.0.1_data_structure_intro.md

- _two category :(a) **linear data Structure** (b) **Non-linear Data Structure**_
 
- Linear Data Structure: Array, List , Linked List, Stack, Vector etc.

- Non-linear Data Structure - Map, Tree, Graph etc. 
 
- Collection Framework facilitates similar as well as dis-similar type of data. 
 
- Size is not pre-defined. 


### Collections features:

- Collections are grow-able in nature.
- can hold homogeneous and heterogeneous objects.
- Collection class is implemented based on some standard data structure so ready made methods support are available for every requirement. So being a programmer we have to use these method and we are not responsible for its implementation
 
 
### Drawbacks of Collections:

  
- Collection concept degrades performance so if we know size in advance then we must use arrays as with collections to insert 100010th element it will   first copy existing elements and then add new one. so performance is degraded.

  
 






