
## List Interface:
 
- List(I) is child interface of Collection(I) only. So it will by default have all methods of Collection(I)

- if we want to represent group of individual objects as single entity **where duplicates are allowed and insertion order preserved** then we should go for List.
- Implementation classes of List(I) are ArrayList, LinkedList, Vector and Stack. 

- Vector and Stack are also called legacy classes since they were there since jdk 1.0.

example: Collection(I) have add (Collection C) method.  but List(I) is having add(int index, Collection C) metod. So it has inherited Collection(I) add
method but changed its nature accordingly.

- There are various methods in List interface that can be used to insert, delete, and access the elements from the list.

- To instantiate the List interface, we must use : 
```
List <data-type> list1= new ArrayList();

List <data-type> list2 = new LinkedList(); 

List <data-type> list3 = new Vector();

List <data-type> list4 = new Stack();
```



## ArrayList:

- Its Concrete class which provides implementation of List (I)

- An object of this class is responsible for creating dynamic resizable array with initial capacity of 10. Beyond 10, it will automatically increase size by approx. 50% capacity. 
  
- It uses a dynamic array to store the duplicate element of different data types.
  
-  The ArrayList class maintains the insertion order and is non-synchronized.
   
-  The elements stored in the ArrayList class can be randomly accessed. 

-  commonly used constructor: public ArrayList(), public ArrayList(int Capacity), public ArrayList(Collection)


examples:
**add/delete operations**
src/main/java/collections/main/java/examples/SampleArrayList.java
**adding another colletion to given collecion**
src/main/java/collections/main/java/examples/SampleArrayList1.java

```java
import java.util.*;
class TestJavaCollection1
{
    public static void main(String args[])
    {
        ArrayList<String> list=new ArrayList<String>();
        list.add("Ravi");//Adding object in arraylist list.add("Vijay");
        list.add("Ravi");
        list.add("Ajay");

//Traversing list
        Iterator<String> itr =  list.iterator();

        while(itr.hasNext())
        {
            System.out.println(itr.next());
        }

    }

}

```
```
Output: 
Ravi 
Ravi 
Ajay
```

##  LinkedList:
 
 -  Its Concrete class which provides implementation of List (I)
-  It uses a doubly linked list internally to store the elements. 
-  It can store the duplicate elements. 
-  It maintains the insertion order and is not synchronized. 
-  In LinkedList, the **manipulation is fast because no shifting is required.**

 -  if we only want to add/remove item from end of list we use ArrayList but if we want to do operations in between of list we use LinkedList. 
 
examples: 
src/main/java/collections/main/java/examples_collections/examples_list/SampleLinkedList.java

Example2: 

```java
import java.util.*;

public class App {
    public static void main(String args[]) {
        LinkedList<String> al = new LinkedList<String>();
        al.add("Ravi");
        al.add("Vijay");
        al.add("Ravi");
        al.add("Ajay");
        Iterator<String> itr = al.iterator();

        while (itr.hasNext()) {
            System.out.println(itr.next());
        }
    }
}
```
```
Output:
Ravi
Vijay
Ravi
Ajay
```

