https://www.tutorialspoint.com/design_pattern/singleton_pattern.htm

**Singletons**

-A singleton class in java can have only one instance and hence all its methods and variables belong to just one instance..
- This pattern involves a single class which is responsible to create an object while making sure that only single object gets created

- This class provides a way to access its only object which can be accessed directly without need to instantiate the object of the class.

Uses: 
-  Singleton class concept is useful for the situations when there is a need to limit the number of objects for a class.
The best example of singleton usage scenario is when there is a limit of having only one connection to a database due to some driver limitations or because of any licensing issues.


**Implementation**
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
example1: src/main/java/collections/main/java/designpatterns/singleton/a

notes_coreJava/4.3a_singleton_pattern_uml_diagram.jpg
We're going to create a SingleObject class. SingleObject class have its constructor as private and have a static instance of itself.

SingleObject class provides a static method to get its static instance to outside world. SingletonPatternDemo, our demo class will use SingleObject class to get a SingleObject object.

Run: src/main/java/collections/main/java/designpatterns/a/singleton/SingletonPatternDemo.java

Output:
Hello World!
SingleObject@27f674d
SingleObject@27f674d

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
example2: src/main/java/collections/main/java/designpatterns/singleton/b

we will copy above example and remove flaws in it. 
1- Remove flaq of creating multiple object using Reflective API

**Definition**:
https://www.guru99.com/java-reflection-api.html#2

Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime. The required classes for reflection are provided under java. lang. reflect package. ... Through reflection we can invoke methods at runtime irrespective of the access specifier used with them

2- Remove bug of creating multiple object using multithreading. 

Output:
Hello World!
SingleObject@1d251891
SingleObject@1d251891
