
**Data type conversion in Java-**

Data type conversion means converting one data type another. In Java you can do it in 3 ways- 
**a) Automatic data type conversion.

b) Explicit data type conversion.


a) Automatic data type conversion-

Automatic conversion, also called implicit conversion, is very simple. The operation is performed automatically by the compiler, as there is no risk of losing information. Moreover, this means that the restriction is that we can only use automatic conversion to convert upwards according to-
       **byte-> short-> int ->long -> float-> double**
       
**This is only valid for numbers**


Furthermore, this makes sense if we view a data type as a container. Imagine that in an automatic conversion, it is possible to place data from a small container in a larger, but not the other way around.
For example-
                   int a = 2; 
                   double x = a;
The operation above gives the variable x value 2.0 and is allowed to perform because double is a larger data type.
Another example-
                   int num = 8 + 7.0;
The above operation is not allowed to perform. Because the variable num to be assigned the value of operation 8 + 7.0 is of data type int, and operand 7.0 is of data type double.

**b) Explicit data type conversion-**

When we cannot convert a data type automatically to another data type, this can instead solve through an explicit type conversion. The developer must order it. If we have an expression with several data types and we then risk losing accuracy in operation, then we need to use explicit type conversion. **Explicit type conversion is also known as casting (re-typing)**.  
When we have to convert a variable with higher precision to a variable with lower, we have to force it. As we shall see below, we do this by specifying, within parentheses, which data type we want to convert.
                        double a = 10.8; 
                        int num = (int) a;  // double (64 bit) --> int (32 bit)
                        
**This is only valid for numbers.**

The operation above will give the variable num the value of 10. Important to note that it lost a large part of the accuracy (decimal part) when it went from a double to an int.
The example from the section on automatic type conversion that could we could no complete is solved by
                        int num = 8 + (int)7.0;
                        
**c) Using built-in methods-**

When we collect information from a user at e.g., a Scanner, then the data from the user ends up in a String. To be able to convert a string to a number (int, double, etc.) and then use it, for, e.g., mathematical calculations, we use embedded methods in Java.

Java has a method for each wrapper class. For example, the class Integer has the method parseInt() that converts a String to an int variable. We will see an example below.

                           String str = "123"; // applicable only if inbuilt stream is number, will not work for str = “dsad”; 
                           int intVariabel = Integer.parseInt(str);
                           double doubleVariabel = Double.parseDouble(str);
                           
We can also go the other way by using built-in methods, for example, from a number to a string. Each wrapper class has a method called toString() that helps us with that conversion, write: Wrapper-class.toString(variable name);
                         // int --> String                

                         int intVariabel = 24;
                         String strI = Integer.toString(intVariabel);
                          // double --> String
                         double doubleVariabel = 385.98;
                         String strD = Double.toString(doubleVariabel);
    
Important points to consider while data type conversion-
It is essential to pay attention to the accuracy of the different data types for various conversions. Remember that when we convert from a decimal number to an integer, we lose the decimal part. We shall see some examples below of simple errors that can occur if we are careless.
                         double d = 7.99999999; 
                         int i = (int)d; 
                          // i = 7
There we have a decimal number d, which is very close to the number 8. However, when we type d into an integer (int), we lose the decimal part, and i = 7 because an int cannot have decimal numbers.
Another example,
                            int x = 4; 
                            int y = 5; 
                            double d = x / y;
                            // d = 0
Here, d = 0. Simply because we perform the division on two integers (int), and since they cannot hold any decimals, then d = 0. If, on the other hand, we convert x and y before performing the division.
                             double d = (double)x / y;
                             // d = 0.8
                             we get the answer d = 0.8
                     