Reading: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4XRy-TdfU0I

**Class:**

- class is template for creating objects
- classes can contain 1- data( instance variables ) 2- subroutines( methods)
- Class is a logical framework and object is physical reality.

- Classes can contain data and objects
- class variables and methods can be referred by object using . operator. e.g., p1.name

**We can have only 1 public class in a file and as many non public class.**

**Methods:**
method represents behavior of class.
method should be with lower case letter

**Variables**

Variables are like boxes to put things in.
Convention for writing: second word is capitalized, for example:myNumber;myString;myName etc.
In java there are **8 primitive type of variables**

int - 32 bit value in java
short - 16 bit value
long - long version of int - 64 bit value
double - for floating point numbers
float  = values must be stored with f at end, its like short double
boolean - true/false etc.
char - unicode character in single quotes'' 
byte - holds 8 bits of data  0-127

**Non-primitive types :**

Strings : in double quotes "" , holds text etc. 
String ( String can also be referred to as class like cat, dog etc. which can hold particular type of objects which is called texts.) 

Arrays : 
int value = 7 ; // bucket of integer value
int values[] or int[] values = new int(3) ; // reference type values is created which can hold 3 integer numbers


**Object:** Its an instance of variable.

class Test

{
  int x;
  String y;
} 

Right now only template is defined and no objects exists. 

Here, x and y are just variable also called as null identifier.

It has valid address defined in memory. So for x respective size of int(32 bits) will be reserved in memory and for y, 256 bits will be reserved. 

Until x and y are assigned any value it doesn't become object.
Same happens in case of class variables.


Next,

Test obj1 = new Test();

Test obj1 ==> creates reference to object
new Test() ==> creates actual object in heap memory with x and y variables.

So obj1 is an instance of class Test.

 
class Test1
{
  
  public static void main(String[] args){
		
		System.out.println("parent main()");
	}
    }
}

Note: 
Test obj1 = new Test();
`obj1` is reference in stack. And `new Test();` is object in heap memory. And all variables are assigned to particular  object.
But before we create any object we need to load the class. Whenever we load a class there is special memory in JVM where we load all the class files.This memory is called loader memory.So once our class loads then we can create objects and object will have all these variables associated with it. 
 
