
# Final keyword- In Java, final keyword can be used with variables, methods and classes. 

-  a) final variables- final variables are nothing but constants. When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can’t be modified,essentially, a constant. This also means that you must initialize a final variable.
 
-  If the final keyword is used with a variable which is a reference to an object, then that variable cannot be re-bound to reference another object,
 but internal state of the object pointed by that variable can be changed 
   
- (Example- you can add/delete elements to/from variable of type array.  
  Please note- Array is treated as a class in Java and variables which are arrays are treated as objects of array type.)

- We must initialize a final variable, otherwise compiler will throw compile-time error.  

- A final variable can only be initialized once. 
  There are three ways to initialize a final variable :

* You can initialize a final variable when it is declared. This approach is the most common. A final variable is called blank final variable, if it is
  not initialized while declaration. Below are the two ways to initialize a blank final variable.

* A blank final variable can be initialized inside instance-initializer block (two curly brackets) or inside constructor. If you have more than one
  constructor in your class then it must be initialized in all of them, otherwise compile time error will be thrown.

* A blank final static variable can be initialized inside static block.

#### Example1:
```java
class Demo{  
   final int MAX_VALUE=99;
   void myMethod(){  
      MAX_VALUE=101;
   }  
   public static void main(String args[]){  
      Demo obj=new  Demo();  
      obj.myMethod();  
   }  
}
```
Output: Compilation error since we cannot change value of final variable. 

#### Example 2- How to use blank final variables.

```java
class Demo{  
   //Blank final variable
   final int MAX_VALUE;	 
   Demo(){
      //It must be initialized in constructor
      MAX_VALUE=100;
   }
   void myMethod(){  
      System.out.println(MAX_VALUE);
   }  
   public static void main(String args[]){  
      Demo obj=new  Demo();  
      obj.myMethod();  
   }  
}
```

Output: 100 // final variable must be initialized within every Contructor of the class 

#### Example 3-  Reference final variables.

* In Java, Arrays, StringBuffer, StringBuilder, etc are in-built classes provided by Java.

```java
class finaVariableExample 
{ 
    public static void main(String[] args)  
    { 
        // a final reference variable sb 
        final StringBuilder strb = new StringBuilder("Hello"); 
          
        System.out.println(strb); 
          
        // changing internal state of object 
        // reference by final reference variable sb 
        strb.append("Hi"); 
          
        System.out.println(strb); 
    }     
} 
```
// StringBuilder(str s) Contructor is called and str is assigned value of "Hello". Since strb is object of StringBuilder so strb will hold this value.
// Although strb object is final but we can change internal state of object.

Output- Hello HelloHi


## b) final methods-When a method is declared with final keyword, it is called a final method. A final method cannot be overridden. 

```java
class XYZ
{  
   final void demo(){
       System.out.println("XYZ Class Method");
   }  
}  	     
class ABC extends XYZ{  
   void demo(){
      System.out.println("ABC Class Method");
   }  	     
   public static void main(String args[]){  
      ABC obj= new ABC();  
      obj.demo();  
   }  
}
```
compilation error since final method cannot be overridden
shows that final methods are inherited but cannot be overriden.

```java
class XYZ{  
   final void demo(){
      System.out.println("XYZ Class Method");
   }  
}  	     
class ABC extends XYZ{  
   public static void main(String args[]){  
      ABC obj= new ABC();  
      obj.demo();  
   }  
}
```

Output-
XYZ Class Method

## c) final classes-  
- When a class is declared with final keyword, it is called a final class.  
- A final class cannot be extended(inherited). Which means, there cannot be child classes of final class.

```java
final class XYZ{  
  int i;
  String str;
}  	     
class ABC extends XYZ{  
   void demo(){
      System.out.println("My Method");
   }  
   public static void main(String args[]){  
      ABC obj= new ABC(); 
      obj.demo();
   }  
}
```
Output-
The type ABC cannot subclass the final class XYZ


### Points to remember while using final keyword-

1. A constructor cannot be declared as final. // because constructor is never inherited.
2) Local final variable must be initialized during declaration.
3) All variables declared in an interface are by default final.
4) We cannot change the value of a final variable.
5) A final method cannot be overridden.
6) A final class cannot be inherited.
7) If method parameters are declared final then the value of these parameters cannot be changed.
8) It is a good practice to name final variable in all CAPS.
9) final, finally and finalize are three different terms. finally is used in exception handling and finalize is a method that is called by JVM during garbage collection.    