 # **Access modifiers-**  
 
 - Java is made up of Classes, Variables, Methods and Constructors. Programmer can decide whether to and how to provide access to these classes, variables, methods and constructors. 
 Programmer can do this by using access modifiers.
 
 - Java provides access modifiers and non-access modifiers.  

 - **Access modifiers are public, private, default and protected.**
 
 - **Non-access modifiers are static, abstract, synchronized, native, volatile, transient, etc**

 - Whether to provide access and where to provide access depends on access modifiers.  

### **Private**: 
- The access level of a private modifier is only within the class.  
- It cannot be accessed from outside the class.  
- A class CANNOT have private access modifier unless it's a nested class.  
 
 
### **Default**:  

- The access level of a default modifier is only within the package.  
- It cannot be accessed from outside the package. If you do not specify any access level, it will be the default.  

### **Protected**: 
- The access level of a protected modifier is within the package and outside the package through child class. 
- If you do not make the child class, it cannot be accessed from outside the package. A class CANNOT have protected access modifier unless it's a nested class.  


### **Public**: 
- The access level of a public modifier is everywhere. 
- It can be accessed from within the class, outside the class, within the package and outside the package.

- **Please note- A class CANNOT have private or protected access modifier unless it's a nested class.**
    
#### How to access private variables from outside the class-

**1. Using methods-** We can access private variables from outside the class through the methods of that class. You need to make those methods public (if you want to give access from anywhere) or protected (if you want to give access to classes in that package only).
Example-

```java
class A
   {
      private int i; // global variable, scope is within class
      private int j;
      public void set_i(int k)
           {
                 i=k;
           }
       public void set_j(int m)
           {
               j=m;
           }
      public int get_i()
           {
                return i;
           }
       public int get_j()
           {
               return j;
           }
   }
class B
   {
       public static void main(String[] args) 
          {
              A obj= new A();
              obj.set_i(5);
              obj.set_j(10);
             int x= obj.get_i();
             int y= obj.get_j();      
             System.out.println(x);
             System.out.println(y);
          }
   }
```

5, 10 
 
**3. Using a constructor-** We can access private variables from outside the class through the methods of that class. You need to make those
   methods public (if you want to give access from anywhere) or protected (if you want to give access to classes in that package only).
   Example-

```java
class A
   {
      private int i;
      private int j;
      public A(int k, int o)
           {
                 i=k;
                 j=o;
           }
      public int get_i()
           {
                return i;
           }
       public int get_j()
           {
               return j;
           }
   }
class B
   {
       public static void main(String[] args) 
          {
              A obj= new A(5,10);
             int x= obj.get_i();
             int y= obj.get_j();      
             System.out.println(x);
             System.out.println(y);
          }
   }
```
5,10 


[2.3.1_access_modifiers_assignment.md](2.3.1_access_modifiers_assignment.md)


[2.3.2_access_modifiers_assignment.md](2.3.2_access_modifiers_assignment.md)