
# Annotations

- An annotation always starts with the symbol `@` followed by the annotation name.
- Java Annotations allows adding metadata info to source code although they are not part of program itself.
- **Annotations provide compiler instructions, runtime instructions, build-time instructions** 

- The build process includes generating source code, compiling the source, generating XML files (e.g. deployment descriptors), packaging the compiled code and files into a JAR file etc. Building the software is typically done by an automatic build tool like Apache Ant or Apache Maven. **Build tools may scan your Java code for specific annotations and generate source code or other files based on these annotations.**
- Normally, Java annotations are not present in your Java code after compilation. It is possible, however, to define your own annotations that are available at runtime. **These annotations can then be accessed via Java Reflection, and used to give instructions to your program, or some third party API.**

- Annotations can be applied to the classes, interfaces, methods and fields and local variables. 

 
- **Built in Annotations: @Deprecated , @Override , @SuppressWarnings  - these are used to give seperate instructions to the compiler**

**@Override:** it instructs the compiler that annotated method is overriding the method.This would check if method is properly overridden and not misspelled etc.

**example**: src/main/java/collections/main/java/corejava/example_annotations/one

**@Deprecated:** 
- indicates that the marked element (class, method or field) is deprecated and should no longer be used
-  The compiler generates a warning whenever a program uses a method, class, or field that has already been marked with the @Deprecated annotation
- @deprecated is used for documentation purpose

example: src/main/java/collections/main/java/example_annotations/two

**@SuppressWarnings:**
- This annotation instructs compiler to ignore specific warnings

example: src/main/java/collections/main/java/corejava/example_annotations/three

**Annotation Elements:** 
- Annotation can have elements for which you can set values.
@Entity(tableName = "vehicles")  // Note @Entity don't have any special meaning in Java. 
@Entity(tableName = "vehicles", primaryKey = "id")
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**Custom Annotations:** 

- Annotations are created by using @interface, followed by annotation name
- An annotation can have elements as well. They look like methods
- All annotations extends java.lang.annotation.Annotation interface. 
- Annotations cannot include any extends clause.

**@interface -** this signifies compiler it's a custom annotation

example: 
@interface MyAnnotation {

    String   value();

    String   name();
    int      age();
    String[] newNames();

}
Notice that each element is defined similarly to a method definition in an interface. It has a data type and a name.

**@Retention -** 
You can specify for your custom annotation if it should be available at runtime, for inspection via reflection. You do so by annotating your annotation definition with the @Retention annotation

@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)   => available only during runtime
RetentionPolicy.CLASS  ==> annotation is stored in the .class file, but not available at runtime.
RetentionPolicy.SOURCE ==> annotation is only available in the source code, and not in the .class files and not a runtime

**@Target  -** 
You can specify which Java elements your custom annotation can be used to annotate. You do so by annotating your annotation definition with the @Target annotation.

@Target({ElementType.METHOD}) ==> only for annotating methods


**@Inherited**
The @Inherited annotation signals that a custom Java annotation used in a class should be inherited by subclasses inheriting from that class.

- In this example the class MySubClass inherits the annotation @MyAnnotation because MySubClass inherits from MySuperClass, and MySuperClass has a @MyAnnotation annotation.
--------------------------------------------
java.lang.annotation.Inherited

@Inherited
public @interface MyAnnotation {

}
--------------------------------------------

@MyAnnotation
public class MySuperClass { ... }
--------------------------------------------
public class MySubClass extends MySuperClass { ... }
--------------------------------------------

**@Documented -** 
The @Documented annotation is used to signal to the JavaDoc tool that your custom annotation should be visible in the JavaDoc for classes using your custom annotation. Here is a @Documented Java annotation example:
--------------------------------------------
import java.lang.annotation.Documented;

@Documented
public @interface MyAnnotation {

}

--------------------------------------------
@MyAnnotation
public class MySuperClass { ... }

--------------------------------------------
When generating JavaDoc for the MySuperClass class, the @MyAnnotation is now included in the JavaDoc.

You will not use the @Documented annotation often, but now you know it exists, if you should need it.

**working example:**
https://mkyong.com/java/java-custom-annotations-example/

[example annotations](https://github.com/njain51/orangutan/tree/main/src/main/java/examples/corejava/example_annotations)

@Test Annotation  ==> custom notation to check if test should be skipped
@TesterInfo ==> applied at class level , store tester details
TestExample.java ==> simple unit test example annotated with custom annotation. 
RunTest.java ==>  use Java reflection APIs to read and process the custom annotations.