
# enums
 
- (helps) represents group of named constants
- The main objective of enum is to define our own data types(Enumerated Data Types).
- **enums are used when we know all possible values during compile time**.
- not necessary set of constants will be fixed for all time 
- defined with 'enum' keyword
- **enum declaration can be done outside of class or inside class but not inside a Method.** 
- according to java conventions we name constants with all capital letter. 

**example**: 4 suits in a deck of playing cards may be 4 enumerators named Club, Diamond, Heart, and Spade, belonging to an enumerated type named Suit

**Usecases**: 
You should always use enums when a variable (especially a method parameter) can only take one out of a small set of possible values.

- [examples enums](https://github.com/njain51/orangutan/tree/main/src/main/java/examples/corejava/example_enum)
 
```java
enum Shape {
    SQUARE, RECTANGLE, CIRCLE; // int can store numbers
// Shape is data type which can contain 3 values only: SQUARE, RECTANGLE, CIRCLE;
}

public class Test {
    // Driver method 
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Shape sh = Shape.SQUARE; //
        System.out.println(sh);

    }
}


```


**Important points of enum :**
  
1. Every enum internally implemented by using Class. internally above enum Color is converted to

```java

class Color {
    public static final Color RED = new Color();
    public static final Color BLUE = new Color();
    public static final Color GREEN = new Color();
} 
```
   
1. Every enum constant represents an object of type enum.

2. enum type can be passed as an argument to switch statement.  

3. **Every enum constant is always implicitly public static final**. 
4. **Since it is static, we can access it by using enum Name. Since it is final, we can’t create child enums**.

5. We can declare main() method inside enum. Hence we can invoke enum directly from the Command Prompt

6. All enums implicitly extend java.lang.Enum class. As a class can only extend one parent in Java, so an enum cannot extend anything else.

7. toString() method is overridden in java.lang.Enum class,which returns enum constant name.

8. enum can implement many interfaces.  

**enum and constructor:**

1. enum can contain constructor and it is executed separately for each enum constant at the time of enum class loading.
2. We can’t create enum objects
   explicitly and hence we can’t invoke enum constructor directly.


   
**enum and methods:**

1. enum can contain both concrete methods and abstract methods. If an enum class has an abstract method, then each instance of the enum class must implement it