
# try catch mechanism for exception handling 

## How to use try-catch clause?

```text
try {
    // block of code to monitor for errors
    // the code you think can raise an exception
}
catch (ExceptionType1 exOb) {
    // exception handler for ExceptionType1
}
catch (ExceptionType2 exOb) {
    // exception handler for ExceptionType2
}
// optional
finally {
    // block of code to be executed after try block ends
}
```

- In a method, there can be more than one statement that might throw an exception, So put all these statements within their own try block and provide a separate exception handler within their own catch block for each of them. 
- If an exception occurs within the try block, that exception is handled by the exception handler associated with it
- To associate exception handler, we must put a catch block after it. There can be more than one exception handlers
- Each catch block is a exception handler that handles the exception of the type indicated by its argument
- The argument, ExceptionType declares the type of exception that it can handle and must be the name of the class that inherits from the Throwable class.
- For each try block there can be zero or more catch blocks, but only one final block.
- The finally block is optional.It always gets executed whether an exception occurred in try block or not. If an exception occurs, then it will be executed after try and catch blocks. And if an exception does not occur then it will be executed after the try block. The finally block in java is used to put important codes such as clean up code e.g. closing the file or closing the connection.

[some more examples](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/types-of-exception-in-java-with-examples/)


[ Further Read on try catch throw](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/try-catch-throw-and-throws-in-java/)