
**1) Data types in Java-**
   Java has two types of data types- Primitive and Non-Primitive.

**a) Primitive data types-**
In Java, we have eight primitive data types: boolean, char, byte, short, int, long, float and double.
Keywords

**b) Non-Primitive data types-**
String, Array, Objects.
Derived from primitive
Classes in java , inbuilt methods
Objects – own methods


**1.1) Primitive data types-**
In Java, we have eight primitive data types: **boolean, char, byte, short, int, long, float and double.**

- byte, short, int and long data types are used for storing whole numbers.

- float and double are used for fractional numbers.

- char is used for storing characters(letters).

- boolean data type is used for variables that holds either true or false.


1.1.1) byte-
This can hold whole number between -128 and 127.
Size in memory- 1 byte. ==> 8 bits => 1 and 0
Default value- 0.

1.1.2) short-
This is greater than byte in terms of size and less than integer. Its range is -32,768 to 32767. ,  
Default size of this data type: 2 byte
Default value- 0

1.1.3) int-
int is greater than short it has a wider range: -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647
Default size: 4 byte ==> 32 bits
Default value: 0

1.1.4 long-
long is bigger than int. It has wider range than int data type, ranging from -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807.
size: 8 bytes
Default value: 0


1.1.5) float-
The float data type is a single-precision 32-bit IEEE 754 floating point. float is used to store numbers with decimal values. float contains values upto 7 decimal points. Default value is 0.0. float number should end with letter 'f'.
Example-
      ` public class floatExample
         {
             public static void main(String[] args)
                  {
                       float myNum = 5.75f; // without store compiler may store as double, requires more memory, 15 decimal point, memory waste
                       System.out.println(myNum);
                  }
         }
Output-
5.75`





