
Reference: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q0NVRQP1Z5g&list=PLX9Zi6XTqOKQ7TdRz0QynGIKuMV9Q2H8E&index=8

**Wrapper clas => primitive data type to objects or vice versa**


- is Java 100% OOP language? No really, as it also contain primitives. 

int i = 7; ==>  i is not object. so it cannot participate in object activities. 

- As a solution to this problem, Java allows you to include primitives in the family of objects by using what are called wrapper clases
- There is a wrapper class for every primitive type in java. 

- Wrapper classes are classes provided by Java which are built around primitive data types.  

- Wrapper classes convert primitive data types to objects.

- The main purpose of wrapper classes is to provide in-built functions needed to manipulate primitive data type variables.  
 
- Wrapper classes wrap around primitive data types so that objects of wrapper classes can make use of in built functions.  

**Autoboxing:**
Automatic conversion of primitive types to the object of their corresponding wrapper classes is known as autoboxing. For example –
conversion of int to Integer, long to Long, double to Double etc.  

**Unboxing**:  
It is just the reverse process of autoboxing.  
Automatically converting an object of a wrapper class to its corresponding primitive type is known as unboxing.  

For example –  
conversion of Integer to int, Long to long, Double to double etc.


(Integer)int i = 7;

**Primitive type ==> Wrapper class**

boolean => Boolean
int => Integer
char => Character
byte => Byte 
short => Short
long => Long 
float => Float 
double => Double

Some important functions in thse wrapper class: 
**valueOf() :** 
              - Each wrapper class will have this static method. 
              - Takes argument as String which will contain data of class  which you want to return. 
              -  So it returns object reference of relative wrapper class

**paarseXxx():**
              - Again its static method. 
              - xxx refers to primitive type
              - returns xxx type value 
              
**xxxValue():**
              - Instance method of wrapper class. Since its not static function so we need to call via object only. 
              - xxx is any primitive type
              - Returns corresponding primitive type. 

Creating wrapper class objects-

To create a wrapper object, use the wrapper class instead of the primitive type. To get the value, you can just print the object.
Example-


`public class WrapperClass 
   { 
  public static void main(String[] args) 
        { 
              Integer myInt = 19; 
              Double myDouble = 19.32; 
              Character myChar = 'A'; 
              System.out.println(myInt);
              System.out.println(myDouble);
              System.out.println(myChar);
        }
 }`
 
Output-
19
19.32
A

Since we are now working with objects, you can use certain methods to get information about the specific object.  

For example, the following methods are used to get the value associated with the corresponding wrapper object: **intValue(), byteValue(), shortValue(), longValue(), intValue(), byteValue(), shortValue(), longValue(), floatValue(), doubleValue(), charValue(), booleanValue().floatValue(), doubleValue(), charValue(), booleanValue().**

For example-

p`ublic class WrapperClass 
      {
  public static void main(String[] args) 
            {
                     Integer myInt = 5;
                     Double myDouble = 5.99;
                     Character myChar = 'A';
                     System.out.println(myInt.intValue());
                     System.out.println(myDouble.doubleValue());
                     System.out.println(myChar.charValue());
            }
}`


Output-
5
5.99
A



Please note- Sometimes you must use wrapper classes, for example when working with Collection objects, such as ArrayList, where primitive
types cannot be used (the list can only store objects).  

For Example-  

`ArrayList<Integer> myNumbers = new ArrayList<Integer>();`


