
**Why we need to declare main methid in Java?** 

javac Test.java ==> no compile time error
Java Test ==> no runtime error
output: Above is valid main

Whether class contains main() method or not and whether main() method is declared according to requirement or not these things won't be checked by compiler.
At runtime, jvm is responsible for checking these things.


class Test{

}

javac Test.java ==> will compile, no matter it contains main or not.
java Test ==> Runtime exception, it will give NoSuchMethodError: main


**Why JVM always searching for public static void main(String[] args) only, because inside JVM its configured like that.** 

If we want to use another  name like nitinmain() instead of main() then customization should be done within  JVM only.

Why its public ==> JVM will call main() method and jvm may be installed anywhere at c drive or d drive etc. So to call JVM from anywhere main() method should be public.

Why its static ==> main() method is a class level method and no where related to object. And Without existing main() method jvm has to call main() method. That's why its static. So we don't need object to call main method.

Why its void ==> JVM is calling main() method. And JVM is not going to do anything with value returned to it that's why return type is void. main() won't return anything to JVM. 

Why its main ==> This is name which is configured inside JVM.

Why Sting[] args ==> This is command line arguments passed to JVM.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

Syntax for main() method is very strict.
If we perform any change we will get runtime exception saying NoSuchMethodError:main.

Even though syntax is very strict,following changes possible still:

1:==> it can also be written as : static public void main(String[] args)
This means access modifiers order not important in JAVA

2:==>  String[] args can be declared in various ways:
    main(String[] args)
    main(String args[])
    main(String []args)

3:==> instead of args we can take any valid JAVA identifier.

4:==> Wherever array is there we can replace with var args parameters. example:
      main(String... args)

5:==> Other modifiers which can be declared for main() method are:

      final modifier can be used: my child class should depend on parent class only.
      synchronized: main() method should be executed by only one thread at a time.
      strictfp: strict floating point.

That means 

class Test {

	final static synchronized strictfp  public void main(String[] args)
	{
	System.out.println("Above is valid main");
	}
	
}

final  synchronized strictfp  public void main(String[] args)

static is missing but we will still not get compile time error as this is valid method declaration but not a valid main() method declaration hence runtime error only.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Case 1:
Overloading:

Overloading of main() method is possible but JVM will always call one with String[] argument main() method only.

The other overloaded method we have to call it explicitly as normal method call.

public class Test1 {
	
	public static void main(String[] args){
		
		System.out.println("String[] called");
	}
	
    public static void main(int[] args){
    	System.out.println("int[] called");
	} 

}
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Case 2:

Inheritance concept applicable for the main method. Hence while executing child class if child class doesn't contain main method then parent class  main method will be executed.

class P
    {
       public static void main(String[] args){
		
		System.out.println("parent main()");
	}
    }

 class R extends P
    {
        
    }

On compilation of javac P.java ==> P.class and R.class will be created.
On executing java P or java R- in both cases "parent main()" will be printed as main() method of parent class will be inherited by child class by default.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Case 3: It seems overriding concept applicable for main method but its not method overriding it is method hiding:  

class P
    {
       public static void main(String[] args){
		
		System.out.println("parent main()");
	}
    }

 class R extends P
    {
        System.out.println("child main()");
    }

On compilation of javac P.java ==> P.class and R.class will be created.
On executing java P  "parent main()" will be printed and on executing java R.java "child main()" will be printed now as it already contains its own main method.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note: For main method inheritance and overloading concepts are applicable but overriding concept is not applicable instead of overriding method hiding concept is applicable.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------