Reference: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qRCEdWQ0f4Q

Static Variable:

Static is a keyword used in Java.

->It can be applied to a field, a method or an inner class.

-> A static field, method or class has a single instance for the whole class that defines it, even if there is no instance of this class in the program.

->If you declare any variable as static, it is known as static variable and if you declare any method as static, it is known static method.

--> static variable are same for all objects but non-static variable different for different objects.

--> static methods can only access static variables or class variables and not local variables( instance variables). Non-static methods can access both.


--> static variable can be referenced by class name or object name ( note its both) but normally whenever we use static keyword we prefer using class name as it's value is same for all objects.

--> if variable j is declared  non static it will give error if referenced through static method as non static variable cannot be used in static context

--> if we want to initialize non-static variable we use constructor but when we have to initialize static variable we normally use static block as static variable is directly loaded into class loader and we need not assign value in constructor as it will be called every-time whenever object is initialized.

--> constructor will be executed when ever we create a object but static block  will be executed when ever we load a class so note that static block will be executed first before constructor.
So class is loaded only once and constructor is executed with every instantiation of object.

-> static block will always be executed before constructor as class is loaded first no matter what the sequence is there in program.

--> we can only access static variable inside static block.

**example:**
 src/main/java/collections/main/java/corejava/example_static
