
**2-List:**
- List(I) is child interface of Collection(I) only. So it will by default have all methods of Collection(I)
- if we want to represent group of individual objects as single entity **where duplicates are allowed and insertion order preserved** then we should go for List.
- Implementation classes of List(I) are ArrayList, LinkedList, Vector and Stack. 
- Vector and Stack are also called legacy classes since they were there since jdk 1.0.

example:  Collection(I) have add (Collection C) method. 
but List(I) is having add(int index, Collection C) metod. So it has inherited Collection(I) add method but changed its nature accordingly. 

**ArrayList:** 
- Its Concrete class which provides implementation of List (I)
- An object of this class is responsible for creating dynamic resizable array with initial capacity of 10. Beyond 10, it will automatically increase size by approx. 50% capacity. 
- commonly used constructor:  public ArrayList(), public ArrayList(int Capacity), public ArrayList(Collection)

examples:
**add/delete operations**
src/main/java/collections/main/java/examples/SampleArrayList.java
**adding another colletion to given collecion**
src/main/java/collections/main/java/examples/SampleArrayList1.java

**LinkedList:**
 
 - Its Concrete class which provides implementation of List (I)
 -  if we only want to add/remove item from end of list we use ArrayList but if we want to do opetrations in between of list we use LinkedList. 
 
examples: 
src/main/java/collections/main/java/examples_collections/examples_list/SampleLinkedList.java


 

