# 1. Data structures-

- Data Structure can be defined as the group of data elements which provides an efficient way of storing and organizing data in the computer so that it can be used efficiently.  
- Some examples of Data Structures are arrays, Linked List, Stack, Queue, etc. Data Structures are widely used in almost every aspect of Computer
  Science i.e. Operating System, Compiler Design, Artificial intelligence, Graphics and many more.

- Store more than one element we need DS so that sorting , searching becomes easy. 

## Need of data structures-

 As applications are getting complexed and amount of data is increasing day by day, there may arise the following problems:

- Processor speed: To handle very large amount of data, high speed processing is required, but as the data is growing day by day to the billions of files per entity, processor may fail to deal with that much amount of data.

- Data Search: Consider an inventory size of 106 items in a store, If our application needs to search for a particular item, it needs to traverse 106 items every time, results in slowing down the search process.

- Multiple requests: If thousands of users are searching the data simultaneously on a web server, then there are the chances that a very large server can be failed during that process

In order to solve the above problems, data structures are used. Data is organized to form a data structure in such a way that all items are not required to be searched and required data can be searched instantly.

##  Advantages of data structures-

- Efficiency: Efficiency of a program depends upon the choice of data structures. For example: suppose, we have some data and we need to perform the search for a perticular record. In that case, if we organize our data in an array, we will have to search sequentially element by element. hence, using array may not be very efficient here. There are better data structures which can make the search process efficient like ordered array, binary search tree or hash tables.

- Reusability: Data structures are reusable, i.e. once we have implemented a particular data structure, we can use it at any other place. Implementation of data structures can be compiled into libraries which can be used by different clients.

- Abstraction: Data structure is specified by the ADT( kind of blueprint) which provides a level of abstraction. The client program uses the data structure through interface( conceptual interface)  only, without getting into the implementation details.