
# Java Mail Project


- we can send email with Java Mail API

- A Platform and protocol independent framework to build mail and messaging applications 

- following dependency is used:

```text
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.sun.mail/javax.mail -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.sun.mail</groupId>
    <artifactId>javax.mail</artifactId>
    <version>1.6.2</version>
</dependency>
```

### Important classes and interfaces: 
#### java.util.properties
- java.util.properties: for keeping key:value pairs in key=value format.
- The Properties class represents the persistent set of properties. 
- The Properties can be saved to a stream or loaded from a stream 
- we can also load System properties using this class 

#### java.mail.Message

- This class models an email message
- To send a message, subclass of Message( e.g., MimeMessage) is instantiated, the attributes and content are filled in and message is sent using Transport.send method

#### javax.mail.MessagingException:

- This is base class for all Exceptions thrown by Messaging classes

#### import.javax.mail.PasswordAuthentication:

- this class is simply a repository for username and password

#### javax.mail.Session:

- Session class represents a mail session.
- Only when you open a Session, you wiill be able to send email. Open Mail session, compose , send email and close. 

#### javax.mail.Transport

- this is abstract class that models a message transport. 
- we will call Transport.send(message) to send message 

#### javax.mail.internet.internetAddress

- this class represents an Internet email Address using the syntax of RFC822
- we will use this class when passing our email address.

#### javax.mail.internet.MimeMessage:

- this class represents MIME style email message.
- It implements the message abstract class and the MimePart Interface. 


#### How to send Message: 
1. Create Session
2. Compose Message
3. Transport.send(message) to send message










