
# Map Interface

- We have to provide Key, Value pairs.
- a) A map contains values on the basis of key, i.e. key and value pair. Each key and value pair is known as an entry. A Map contains unique keys.
- b) A Map is useful if you have to search, update or delete elements on the basis of a key.
- c) There are three commonly used classes which implement Map : HashMap, LinkedHashMap, and TreeMap. 
- d) A Map doesn't allow duplicate keys, but you can have duplicate values. 
- e) **A Map can't be traversed, so you need to convert it into Set using entrySet() method.**

## Implemeting class for Map Interface

1. HashMap- It doesn't maintain any order by default.
2. LinkedHashMap- It maintains insertion order by default.
3. TreeMap- It maintains ascending order by default.

### Methods from Map interface

- void clear() 
  
Removes all of the mappings from this map (optional operation).


- boolean containsKey(Object key)

Returns true if this map contains a mapping for the specified key.

- boolean	containsValue(Object value)

Returns true if this map maps one or more keys to the specified value.

- Set<Map.Entry<K,V>> entrySet()

Returns a Set view of the mappings contained in this map.

- boolean	equals(Object o)

Compares the specified object with this map for equality.

- V	get(Object key)

Returns the value to which the specified key is mapped, or null if this map contains no mapping for the key.

- int	hashCode()

Returns the hash code value for this map.

- boolean	isEmpty()

Returns true if this map contains no key-value mappings.

- Set<K>	keySet()

Returns a Set view of the keys contained in this map.

- V put(K key, V value)

Associates the specified value with the specified key in this map (optional operation).

- void	putAll(Map<? extends K,? extends V> m)

Copies all of the mappings from the specified map to this map (optional operation).

- V remove(Object key)

Removes the mapping for a key from this map if it is present (optional operation).

- int	size()

Returns the number of key-value mappings in this map.

- Collection<V>	values()

Returns a Collection view of the values contained in this map.


### 2.1) entrySet() method-

- This method converts your Map to a Set. Thus, this method returns a Set containing Map entries so that you are able to traverse the entries from the
  map. 
- // both key,value entries goes to set in form key=value

### 2.2) Map.Entry -

- Map.Entry represents individual entries from your Map.

#### Methods from Map.Entry-


- boolean equals(Object o) 

Compares the specified object with this entry for equality.

- K getKey()

Returns the key corresponding to this entry.

- V getValue()

Returns the value corresponding to this entry.

- int hashCode()

Returns the hash code value for this map entry.

- V setValue(V value)

Replaces the value corresponding to this entry with the specified value (optional operation).

- static <K extends Comparable<? super K>,V>
- Comparator<Map.Entry<K,V>>	comparingByKey()

Returns a comparator that compares Map.Entry in natural order on key.

- static<K,V> Comparator<Map.Entry<K,V>>comparingByKey(Comparator<? super K> cmp)

Returns a comparator that compares Map.Entry by key using the given Comparator.

- static <K,V extends Comparable<? super V>>
- Comparator<Map.Entry<K,V>>	comparingByValue()


Returns a comparator that compares Map.Entry in natural order on value.

- static <K,V> Comparator<Map.Entry<K,V>>comparingByValue(Comparator<? super V> cmp)

Returns a comparator that compares Map.Entry by value using the given Comparator.

* V return type means Value.

##### Example1 - Traversing Map

```java
package com.examples.collection;

//traversing map

import java.util.*;

public class App6 {

    public static void main(String args[]) {
        // Create a hash map
        HashMap hm = new HashMap();

        // Put elements to the map
        hm.put("Tom", new Double(3434.34));
        hm.put("Michael", new Double(123.22));
        hm.put("Adam", new Double(1378.00));
        hm.put("Danielle", new Double(99.22));
        hm.put("Jack", new Double(-19.08));

        Set set = hm.entrySet();  // Get a set of the entries since we cannot access Map directly.
        System.out.println(set);

        // Get an iterator
        Iterator i = set.iterator();

        // Display elements
        while(i.hasNext()) {
            //System.out.println(i.next());

           Map.Entry me = (Map.Entry)i.next();  // after conversion  to SET each element is represented by Map.entry
           System.out.print(me.getKey() + ": ");
           System.out.println(me.getValue());
        }
        System.out.println();

        // Deposit 1000 into Michael's account
//        double balance = ((Double)hm.get("Michael")).doubleValue();
//        hm.put("Michael", new Double(balance + 1000));
//        System.out.println("Michael's new balance: " + hm.get("Michael"));
    }
}

```

```
[Adam=1378.0, Danielle=99.22, Tom=3434.34, Michael=123.22, Jack=-19.08]
Adam: 1378.0
Danielle: 99.22
Tom: 3434.34
Michael: 123.22
Jack: -19.08
```

##### Example2 : Accessing Map elements 

```java
import java.util.*;

class Test
{
    public static void main(String args[])
    {
        Map<Integer,String> map=new HashMap<Integer,String>();
        map.put(100,"Amit");
        map.put(101,"Vijay");
        map.put(102,"Rahul");
        //Elements can traverse in any order
        for(Map.Entry m:map.entrySet())  //
        {
            System.out.println(m.getKey()+" "+m.getValue());
        }
    }
}
```

```
100 Amit
101 Vijay
102 Rahul

```
