###  Understanding Collections Framework in depth:

#### Collection:

- It represents group of objects known as element.( can be T or E)

- Group of Element is called Collection.  
- It can be Similar or Dis-similar elements.  
- Element here refers to objects in java.  
- **So, basically homo or hetero grouping of objects in java is called Collection.**  
- **A Collection is group of objects represented as single entity.**

- From Coding point of view: Collection is an Interface. 
- it's there in java.util package. 
- Some Collection allow duplicacy while others dont allow it. 
- Some allow indexing while others don't 
- **In Hierarchy - Collection is root interface.** 
- So wherever there is a scenario of object gathering and operations on those objects we use Collection Framework as defacto implementation in java.


### Framework:
 
- it means set of API which works on pre-defined algorithm and targeted to specific domain. 
-  JDBC framework specific target is Database, Collection Framework is a specific target to Data Structure, Java EE specific target is web and enterprise application etc. 
-  Maintenance is easy with Framework. 
- its lke phtoframe of 4*4 size where we can put any photo of our choice. 

- java api logic will be in function, function will be in class, class will be in package and package will be in jar. So api represents sets of libraries or pre-defined functionalities in any language. 
- In C++ API is represented in form of header files, 
- in Java its represented in form of classes, iterrfaces and pacakges. 

### API Vs Framework 

- Api is mandatory but Framework is Optional. Before v1.2 also Collections API were there but there was no framework. So to achieve same purpose
  different framework can be used but programming cannot be done without API present.

 
NOTE: **Collection of API represents Framework.**
